---
path: "/2020-03-09"
title: "03-09-2020"
date: "2020-03-09"
description: "Sweep/Armbar from halfguard top"
type: "BJJ"
---

Starting with your right leg tied up and you on your feet you grab the back of the collar with your right hand and grab the gi on the side of the knee with the left. Push your right knee forward and bring it back to loosen up the opponent’s grip and quickly bring your heel up to your butt to step over to the right so you have your opponent between your legs. Back kick with your left leg over and rotate your body to the side of your opponent and try to land with your shoulder into the opponent to hold them in position. From there you have side control.

Starting from the same position (right leg tied up on your feet.) Shove your right knee forward and break the grip the same way you did before but instead of stepping to the right step over to the left and get your knee into their chest quickly. Lower their torso to the ground, post with your right hand on the far side of the opponent and make sure to have the opponent’s topside arm up straight up by your chest. Bring the right leg up into the opponent’s armpit. Try to have the top of your ankle tight on the backside of their shoulder/armpit. Bring your left leg over the opponent’s head and staying on top of the opponent you raise your hips up for the armbar.

Really struggled with the armbar here but the sweep and passing the half guard in general seemed very useful. The knee onto chest move also seems like it could be an effective transition in a few other ways.
