---
path: "/2020-02-05"
title: "02-05-2020"
date: "2020-02-05"
description: "Mount Escape - Elbow Knee Escape"
type: "BJJ"
---

Today was another transition from bottom of mount ending in your opponents closed guard. Start with your right hand on the left side of the opponents hip it helps if you press your elbow/forearm across the entire hip and make sure your left leg is laying flat. Shrimp to your left side a bit(not fully onto your side enough to expose your back.) Bring your right leg over your opponents leg and drag his foot over your left leg. Push down on the opponents knee to get the whole leg between your own legs. Shrimp hard to your right side and square up to get your right leg out and around your opponent into closed/open guard.

Slight variation on this; while your opponent is still mounted bring your right leg over and use your toes to lift the opponents foot from the same side as your own leg rather than dragging it over like in the previous drill.

Another mount escape we drilled was when your opponent has his arm behind your neck/head to control you. You trap that arm using the arm on the same side, simply put the arm up and place your palm on the back of your head. with that arm controlled lock down the foot on the same side by throwing your leg over it and flexing your foot. bump with the hip on the opposite side of the trapped limbs and throw your arm over your opponents back to help them roll to their back. you end up in their guard.

Video of Elbow Knee Escape: https://grapplersguide.com/portal/threads/mount-escape-elbow-knee-escape-variations.6670/

Video of Bump/Roll escape: https://grapplersguide.com/portal/threads/mount-escape-bump-and-roll.6671/
(move is performed slightly different but very similar)
