---
path: "/2020-01-06"
title: "01-06-2020"
date: "2020-01-06"
description: "Loop choke sweep/armbar"
type: "BJJ"
---

Started off with a relatively simple takedown. You go in for a single leg takedown but incorrectly get your head on the outside of the body and into position for a guillotine choke. to get out of this you put your left hand on your opponent’s wrist to protect your neck and throw your right arm over the shoulder of the opponent so that when the chock is attempted you can lift yourself up a bit using that arm and the opponent’s shoulder. Then a quick shuffle foot over to the right and use your knee to knock the opponent’s knee in and make them fall with you landing on their side and end the move in side control.

The meat of the class focused on the loop choke from closed guard bottom. First you grab ahold of the left side of your opponent’s collar (deep grab is best) with your right hand. Next you shrimp to the side a little and use a technical lift to get to your feet. Next to perform the choke you throw your right arm under the neck and put your left hand across the top of the head. Apply pressure with a cradle like movement (leaning to the left, cradle the baby is a good cue.)

That continued into a sweep, after you get to your feet with your hand on the collar you pull your opponent forward to get them off base. Once they are off base you grab their left hand and pull up on their collar which forces them to flip to their back or be choked. The sweep ends with you on your feet beside your opponent with their arm in your grip
From that position you can make sure your right foot is tight against your opponent and step your left foot over their head. Make sure to keep the arm pinched tight between your legs. From there you just sit back for the armbar.
