---
path: "/2020-02-04"
title: "02-04-2020"
date: "2020-02-04"
description: "Mount sweep/Transition"
type: "BJJ"
---

Today we drilled from the mount bottom position. The attacker on top has a hold of your collor on the left side with his right hand(or vice versa.) you start by grabbing the wrist with your right hand and forearm close to the elbow with your left hand and pulling in toward your body to break posture and keep your elbows at your side. The leg on the same side as the trapped arm is trapped and your hips are flared out like the butterfly guard position. Move your head to the side opposite the trapped leg/arm and use the hip bump to roll over and get on top of your opponent in the closed guard.

On top in the guard you grab your opponent’s lapels (about chest high) with your right hand and grab the cuff with your left, pull it tight to your side. Stand up with your left foot first and then your right making sure to keep your posture good (chest high, look up if you need to.) switch hands so the right had control of the cuff and push the left knee down to break guard and prepare for the slice. Shuffle feet to the left into half guard and use the knee slice to get the right leg across to side control. Get the under hook on top and use the opponents elbow to tuck the arm into your armpit.

Swim your left arm in underneath the opponents left(right next to the under hook arm) to force both arms over your body and have control of the hips/legs. Kick left leg through towards your opponent’s feet and throw your right leg overtop to gain the mount position and complete the transition.
